README.md, before:

Beanstream PHP API
==================

Composer ready PHP wrapper for [Beanstream API](http://developer.beanstream.com/documentation/).

## Installation

The recommended way to install the library is using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org).

```json
{
    "require": {
        "propa/beanstream": "dev-master"
    }
}
```

## Handling Exceptions

If the server returns an unexpected response or error, PHP API throws *\Beanstream\Exception*.

Positive error codes correspond to Beanstream API errors, see
[Take Payment Errors](http://developer.beanstream.com/documentation/take-payments/errors/),
[Analyze Payment Errors](http://developer.beanstream.com/documentation/analyze-payments/errors/),
[Tokenize Payments Errors](http://developer.beanstream.com/documentation/tokenize-payments/errors/).

Negative codes correspond to [cURL errors](http://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/libcurl-errors.html)
(original cURL error codes are positive, in *\Beanstream\Exception* those are just reversed).
Exception with zero error code are PHP API specific, e.g. *The curl extension is required* or
*Unexpected response format*.

Generally, any unsuccessful request, e.g. insufficient data or declined transaction, results in *\Beanstream\Exception*,
thus *try..catch* is recommended for intercepting and handling them, see example below.

## Your First Integration

The sample below is an equivalent of original [example](http://developer.beanstream.com/documentation/your-first-integration/)
from Beanstream.

```php
<?php

$merchant_id = ''; //INSERT MERCHANT ID (must be a 9 digit string)
$api_keys = array(
	'payments' => '', //INSERT PAYMENTS API KEY (if required)
	'profiles' => '', //INSERT PROFILES API KEY (if required)
	'reporting' => '' //INSERT REPORTING API KEY (if required)
	);
$api_version = 'v1'; //default
$platform = 'www'; //default

//Create Beanstream Gateway
$beanstream = new Beanstream\Gateway($merchant_id, $api_keys, $platform, $api_version);

//Example Card Payment Data
$payment_data = array(
        'order_number' => 1234567890,
        'amount' => 1.00,
        'payment_method' => 'card',
        'card' => array(
            'name' => 'Mr. Card Testerson',
            'number' => '4030000010001234',
            'expiry_month' => '07',
            'expiry_year' => '22',
            'cvd' => '123'
        )
);
$complete = TRUE; //set to FALSE for PA

//Try to submit a Card Payment
try {

	$result = $beanstream->payments()->makeCardPayment($payment_data, $complete);
    
    /*
     * Handle successful transaction, payment method returns
     * transaction details as result, so $result contains that data
     * in the form of associative array.
     */
} catch (\Beanstream\Exception $e) {
    /*
     * Handle transaction error, $e->code can be checked for a
     * specific error, e.g. 211 corresponds to transaction being
     * DECLINED, 314 - to missing or invalid payment information
     * etc.
     */
}
```

See examples.php for more examples.

## Tips

### Authentication

Beanstream defines separate API access passcodes for payment, profile and search requests. API Passcodes
are configured via the Beanstream dashboard (See *administration -> account settings -> order settings* 
for payment and search passcodes, *configuration -> payment profile configuration* for profile passcode).
API passcodes are held in the $api_keys array as values for the follwing keys 'payments', 'profiles', 'reporting'.
If you do not wish to use certain API features, you may leave that specific API Passcode blank in the $api_keys
array. You can also initialize separate Beanstream\Gateway instances for each type of request.


### Billing Address Province

Beanstream requires *province* filed submitted along with *billing* data to be two-letter code. It only requires it when
spedified *country* is *US* or *CA*, for other country codes set it to *--* even if corresponding country does have states
or provinces.

Commit message:

switched apikeys from array to string, refactored affected classes,  upaded readme and examples accordingly

README.md, after:

Beanstream PHP API
==================

Composer ready PHP wrapper for [Beanstream API](http://developer.beanstream.com/documentation/).

## Installation

The recommended way to install the library is using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org).

```json
{
    "require": {
        "propa/beanstream": "dev-master"
    }
}
```

## Handling Exceptions

If the server returns an unexpected response or error, PHP API throws *\Beanstream\Exception*.

Positive error codes correspond to Beanstream API errors, see
[Take Payment Errors](http://developer.beanstream.com/documentation/take-payments/errors/),
[Analyze Payment Errors](http://developer.beanstream.com/documentation/analyze-payments/errors/),
[Tokenize Payments Errors](http://developer.beanstream.com/documentation/tokenize-payments/errors/).

Negative codes correspond to [cURL errors](http://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/libcurl-errors.html)
(original cURL error codes are positive, in *\Beanstream\Exception* those are just reversed).
Exception with zero error code are PHP API specific, e.g. *The curl extension is required* or
*Unexpected response format*.

Generally, any unsuccessful request, e.g. insufficient data or declined transaction, results in *\Beanstream\Exception*,
thus *try..catch* is recommended for intercepting and handling them, see example below.

## Your First Integration

The sample below is an equivalent of original [example](http://developer.beanstream.com/documentation/your-first-integration/)
from Beanstream.

```php
<?php

$merchant_id = ''; //INSERT MERCHANT ID (must be a 9 digit string)
$api_key = ''; //INSERT API ACCESS PASSCODE
$api_version = 'v1'; //default
$platform = 'www'; //default

//Create Beanstream Gateway
$beanstream = new Beanstream\Gateway($merchant_id, $api_key, $platform, $api_version);

//Example Card Payment Data
$payment_data = array(
        'order_number' => 'a1b2c3',
        'amount' => 1.00,
        'payment_method' => 'card',
        'card' => array(
            'name' => 'Mr. Card Testerson',
            'number' => '4030000010001234',
            'expiry_month' => '07',
            'expiry_year' => '22',
            'cvd' => '123'
        )
);
$complete = TRUE; //set to FALSE for PA

//Try to submit a Card Payment
try {

	$result = $beanstream->payments()->makeCardPayment($payment_data, $complete);
    
    /*
     * Handle successful transaction, payment method returns
     * transaction details as result, so $result contains that data
     * in the form of associative array.
     */
} catch (\Beanstream\Exception $e) {
    /*
     * Handle transaction error, $e->code can be checked for a
     * specific error, e.g. 211 corresponds to transaction being
     * DECLINED, 314 - to missing or invalid payment information
     * etc.
     */
}
```

See examples.php for more examples.

## Tips

### Authentication

Beanstream defines separate API access passcodes for payment, profile and reporting API requests. It is possible 
to use the same value for all of them, and create a single instance of \Beanstream\Gateway. You can also 
initialize separate \Beanstream\Gateway instances for each type of request.  API access passcodes are 
configured via the Beanstream dashboard (See *administration -> account settings -> order settings* 
for payment and search passcodes, *configuration -> payment profile configuration* for profile passcode).


### Billing Address Province

Beanstream requires the *province* field submitted along with *billing* data to be a two-letter code. It only requires it when
the specified *country* is *US* or *CA*, for other country codes set it to *--* (two dashes) even if the corresponding country 
does have states or provinces.
